# UART Registers - Part 2

Main features of the 16550 include:

    - The ability to convert data from serial to parallel, and from parallel to serial, using shift registers.
    - An on-chip bit rate (baud rate) generator to control transmit and receive data rate.
    - Handshake lines for control of an external modem, controllable by software.
    - An interrupt function to the host microprocessor.
    - An on-chip FIFO buffer for both incoming and outgoing data; this gives the host system more time to respond to an interrupt generated by the UART, without loss of data.


What you can config using software (MMIO):  
    - transfer speeds
    - character width
    - parity checking levels
    - interrupt handling
    - Queue mode for the 2 16-byte buffers (FIFO(16550 mode) or non-FIFO(16440 mode))

There are two 16-byte buffers.  
At synthesis(initial configuration), you can independently activate each buffer.  

The buffers can be manipulated by software to be either FIFO or non-FIFO. Non-FIFO means (disabling the FIFO buffers and instead only relying on the Receiver Holding Register and Transmitter Holding Register). Non-FIFO mode is also called `16450 mode`.  
For hardware.  

### Direct Memory Access
DMA(Direct Memory Access) is allowed through the interaction between the DMA-controller and the UART.  
DMA is a technique whereby an external device can access memory without having to interact with the CPU. This is made possible by a DMA controller that process info on behalf of the CPU.  

undone: Management of modem control outputs and inputs (with their associated interrupt) is included.  

Under the 16550A uart design, there are 2 output wires that get connected from the UART to the DMA-Controller. One wire transmits a signal when the UART receives new data and the other wire transmits a signal when the UART is ready to accept new data from memory so that it may transmit it out.  

The UART module has : 
    - two DMA control signals
    - two DMA transfer flags
    - associated interrupts

### Modem Management/Control
discuss theory on the modem control.  
discuss the modem_control input signals, output signals and interrupt info.   



### General 
Understand electronics from the point of a synchronous, static and modular system 

